# From Bitcoin to Social Consensus
When I first learned about Bitcoin, I marveled at it. It's a great invention, I mean mathematically and logically. I'm not going to talk about the technical details of it here. 

I've discussed Bitcoin with some of my friends prior to this and generally they are focus on two pionts. How does Bitcoin keep the total amount constant? I answered the algorithmic guarantee that the total amount is constant in a mathematical sense. But that's not the import point. They come back with a second question, if they give Bitcoin a different name and deploy another programs. Wouldn't that be just another set of coins with a constant total amount of coins. This is a good issue and the main I want to disuss today: consensus. It does not refer to the consensus mechanism in Bitcoin technology, but rather to social consensus.

Let's take a look at what social consensus can produce. In the United States, an election is held every four years, resulting in the selection of a president, a person who controls the nuclear launch codes. This is an outcome of social consensus in the United States. In North Korea, Kim Jong-un is the country's leader. This is the consensus within North Korean society. Don't be quick to argue, this is a fact. Suppose there exists a deity who can simultaneously alter the memories of the North Korean people, replacing their recollection of the national leader with someone else. In this scenario, North Korea could undergo a regime change without any casualties because the consensus would shift. 

Therefore, authoritarian regimes invariably seek to control the media to prevent a shift in consensus. On the other hand, why can gold circulate as currency in various parts of the world? It's because of consensus. The industrial and decorative value of gold alone is not sufficient to support its current price. How does it form a consensus in the financial field? Because gold is scarce and stable, many countries independently choose to use gold as currency. Once countries that use gold become the majority, other nations are compelled to adopt gold as currency for trade. This further solidifies the consensus of gold as a financial product. The popularity of the US dollar and the English language follows the same principle. So, despite the continuous printing of money by the Federal Reserve which dilutes the currency, there's little anyone can do. Because consensus has already formed, making it difficult to change. 

Have people ever thought about why paper currency can buy goods?
Have you ever thought about why the output of your hard work can be exchanged for a piece of paper?
Because of consensus, you know you can use paper money to buy someone else's output. Some say it's credit, and that's true, but credit is only used to form consensus. In fact, the credit of  currency is pitifully low, as they are constantly printing money to dilute the currency.

So, we come back to the second question about Bitcoin: Can you create a new name, similar to changing a variable name, and then release a new set of virtual currency? The answer is yes, you can. In fact, Litecoin is a similar example. However, what eventually forms widespread consensus is still Bitcoin. Because of consensus.